It's an honor to minister to you right now
wherever you are, whether you're in your home
or your car.
Some people listen to me while they work out,
so that's good.
Get another rep!
That's your sign.
You were praying for a sign that you should
work out today.
This is it.
Go work out.
Thus saith the Lord.
I want to share with you today…
Let's go to Acts, chapter 3.
As you're turning there, just to give a moment
for everybody to turn, put in the chat right
now where you're joining us from…YouTube
or Facebook or wherever you're joining us
from.
Where are you joining us from?
We want to know.
And what's your name, what's your favorite
band, and what's your favorite flavor of ice
cream, or whatever you want to say in the
chat.
Don't let the chat distract you, because God
has a word for you today.
Tell your neighbor, "Don't distract me today.
God is going to speak to me today."
Look at them and say, "You look so good you're
distracting me right now, but stop distracting
me."
God is going to speak to us today.
Acts, chapter 3, verse 13.
I really want to go to verse 19, so I will.
I said that like it was something I really
wanted, but we can do it.
Let's just do it.
"The God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob…"
Starting off strong.
"…the God of our fathers, has glorified
his servant Jesus.
You handed him over to be killed, and you
disowned him before Pilate, though he had
decided to let him go.
You disowned the Holy and Righteous One and
asked that a murderer be released to you.
You killed the author of life, but God raised
him from the dead.
We are witnesses of this.
By faith in
the name of Jesus, this man whom you see and
know was made strong.
It is Jesus' name and the faith that comes
through him that has completely healed him,
as you can all see.
Now, fellow Israelites, I know that you acted
in ignorance, as did your leaders.
But this [what you did in ignorance] is how
God fulfilled what he had foretold through
all the prophets, saying that his Messiah
would suffer.
Repent, then, [change your mind, change your
direction,] and turn to God, so that your
sins may be wiped out, that times of refreshing
may come from the Lord…"
Go back to verse 15.
It's the nucleus of this message.
"You killed the author of life, but God raised
him from the dead.
We are witnesses of this."
Today I want to talk to you about What Comes
After.
That's what the Lord wants me to talk to you
about.
You know how you've been stressing out about
stuff that's out there somewhere?
The Lord said, "Let's talk about what comes
after."
You know how you've been stuck in some things
that happened, and you keep tripping on stuff
that's behind you?
How do you even trip on something that's behind
you?
But the Lord said, "Let's talk today for just
a few moments about what comes after."
Thank you for your Word, God.
In Jesus' name, amen.
While you're getting situated, quick plug.
Holly has a book club.
You have two fans, babe.
It sounds like you need a new marketing department.
No, it's awesome.
She has a book club, and it is called the
Holly Furtick Book Club.
Very creative title.
I love it, because when I asked her why she
was doing it, she said, "Because I want to."
Nothing deep about it.
They don't always study books about "Seven
Ways to Pray Your Way into a Greater Day."
They just study books she likes.
They don't really even study them.
Why am I saying "study"?
They just talk about them.
It's cool because she'll often get the author
on.
She's so excited when she gets the author.
She'll call me into the room or come running
in.
She'll be like, "I got the author!"
I'm like, "That's great, babe."
Then I pick on her.
I'm like, "But, you know, I have a book club
too."
She's always trying to get me to read the
books.
I'm like, "No, babe.
I'm sorry.
I have a book club, and the Author lives in
my heart."
You have to feel so sorry for my family.
They get dad jokes and preacher jokes and
both of them combined.
It's unbearable, let me tell you right now.
But I joke with her.
I don't know.
It's probably not because I'm studying the
Bible.
I'm probably just lazy.
I always intend to read the books that she
does, and I never get around to it.
So she'll usually take me to go see the movie,
if there is a movie, and I will do that.
She took me to see one recently.
I won't tell you what the movie is so it won't
be like a spoiler alert if you want to go
see that movie.
I hated it.
I thought the movie was terrible.
It was kind of a last-minute decision.
We snuck some low-carb candy into the movie
theater, and I sat there and watched that
movie.
Within five minutes, she turns to me and goes,
"I'm so sorry."
Then you know what she's going to say next.
"I promise the book was so much better."
About every five minutes, she would turn to
me and say, "I promise the book was better."
I didn't read the book, so I'm like, "Yeah,
right.
How would I know if you're telling me the
truth?"
One day I'm going to preach a Scripture that
says, "You are living epistles" and talk about
how God wants to put his Word through our
lives living, and then I'm going to ask, "Was
the book better?
Are you living out…?"
So, I'm going to do that one day.
She said, "I promise the book was better."
After two hours of me thinking, "I really
love you to sit through this movie…"
I didn't like it at all.
It did something I didn't expect it to do.
The last scene of the movie, I was literally
getting my keys, getting my wallet, literally
thinking, "Let's just go ahead and go.
I don't need this long last scene."
What happened in the last two minutes…
I looked at her and said, "That was a pretty
good movie.
I did not see that coming."
The last two minutes changed the whole movie,
from me wanting a refund to me wanting to
rewatch it.
I'm like, "Maybe we should come back and see
that again, because I need to watch everything
that I thought was stupid and slow and corny
through the lens of the last thing that happened."
What I saw in the last two minutes made me
rethink the whole last two hours because of
what I saw at the end that I didn't know in
the beginning, and I didn't know in the middle,
but then when I saw the end, it changed the
middle, it changed the beginning, and it made
me think, "Maybe you are a good book picker.
Maybe this movie wasn't so bad after all."
In life, wouldn't it be nice if we could see
the last two minutes, the last two months,
the last two years, just to know how to watch
everything that is happening in real time?
Something can happen at the end that makes
you go back and rethink the entire thing that
went before it.
You know I'm right.
You can have experiences in life that make
you go from "Thank you, Lord, for bringing
this person into my life, for this relationship,"
to "Lord, why didn't you protect me from this
relationship?
Why didn't I listen to all of the people who
told me…?"
You know I'm right.
There are things that can happen later.
Here's what it is.
I was thinking.
Did the last two minutes change the first
two hours?
Can you change the past?
Before you say, "No," reconsider my illustration
in light of this book club we've chosen to
attend today.
We're in a book club.
Right?
We read something that happened not at the
beginning of the ministry of Peter and John
and not at the end.
We read something that happened right there
in the middle that was so powerful, this miracle
that was so powerful.
I love it.
I've been studying this all week.
I know what comes before, I know what comes
after, and right in the middle of it, Peter
is preaching.
He says something, and there's a word from
God.
Actually, there are two words from God.
Usually I get up to give you a word from God,
but you picked "Double Portion Sunday" today.
There are two words from God in this text.
Now, before we get there, let's back out one
more time and consider the premise.
Can you change the past?
Certainly, we can't redo the events.
That's a waste of time.
I think all regret is a misappropriation of
imagination.
It's you taking the wisdom God wants you to
use for your future and applying it toward
a situation that is already behind you.
So, can you change the past?
Apparently, Peter thinks you can.
Not change the events.
By the way, we're always changing the past
when we tell somebody else what happened.
You are the senior editor of your story, and
you make all kinds of changes and alterations.
You switch stuff around.
You add dialogue…internal dialogue, external
dialogue.
You are an unreliable narrator, to put it
in book terms, because this is a book club.
Right?
Now, the Bible is not a book like we say it's
a book.
It has 62 separate books, different types
of literature, everything from poetry to historical
narrative to letters that were written to
the church to instruct them how to live.
Then you have the Gospels, which give the
record of the account of what Jesus did while
he was here.
The book of Acts is awesome because it tells
us what happened after Jesus left.
Now we know that this movement that was beginning
here in Acts, chapter 3, is something that
will still occupy a space in time in 2022
(2023 if you watch it later or 2025 if you
watch it later).
God knows all of that.
God knows when you're going to watch this
message.
What Peter didn't know is that I was going
to be bringing his words that he had to say
on the spot to you today for your situation
and that you would be in a situation today
where you don't know what's next and you can't
figure out what's happening.
The challenge of it is we don't get to see
the last scene.
The disciples didn't get to see the last scene.
They didn't get to see that this would work,
that the gospel would indeed go from Jerusalem
(that's where they started) to Judea (the
surrounding area) to Samaria (where they tended
to avoid) and to the ends of the earth (Ballantyne,
Gaston, Riverwalk, Columbia).
The ends of the earth…Kentucky.
Peter didn't know about Kentucky when he preached
this, but I guarantee there's somebody right
now who's watching us from Kentucky.
They weren't paying attention, and all of
a sudden, I just got their attention because
I said "Kentucky."
Yeah, the Lord wanted me to say, "Kentucky,"
because he knew you'd need this word right
now.
God is like that.
My challenge is…How do I live through this
story when I don't know the last scene that
may make it all make sense?
That's why I have to live
by faith.
By faith.
We walk by faith, not by sight.
So, it means that even though I haven't seen
the last scene…
"Is my kid going to come back home?"
I haven't seen the last scene.
"Is my marriage going to make it?"
"Am I ever going to get through this?"
I haven't seen the last scene.
"Am I going to get another job while I keep
getting all of these other bills?
I keep getting other bills, but I haven't
got another job.
If I get the other job, am I going to make
enough in the other job to pay all of the
other bills, because all of the other bills
didn't stop coming while I was waiting on
the other job?"
Even though I haven't seen that scene, by
faith I can believe that if God said he was
with me…
He knows what's next, and I can trust him.
Selah.
Pause and think about it.
In this scene of your life, you can believe
that what God is working in your life, in
your family, in your career, in my ministry,
in my heart, in my character…
Even though I don't get to see the last scene,
I can turn to Holly and say, "This is going
to be good," because I trust who wrote the
screenplay.
Peter is coming on kind of strong in this
sermon, you have to admit, but he's fired
up.
You know how you get fired up?
You get on a spiritual high.
Have you ever been on a spiritual high?
No?
Certainly, it's a lot different than what
you just demonstrated.
Maybe today is not the day.
Peter had done something pretty amazing.
Jesus used to help them do miracles, but now
he's no longer here in human form, and he
sent his Spirit.
He was always telling them while he walked
the earth, "I'm going to leave, but after
I do, I'll send something that will give you
a power I can't give you while I'm here, so
wait for that.
Don't get discouraged.
I'm going to die.
I'll be there three days, but don't give up
in three days.
Don't give up in 10 days, 20 days, 30 days,
or 50 days.
When they're persecuting you, know that they
persecuted me.
I'm giving you a spirit, the Spirit of God."
On the day of Pentecost, the Spirit came.
They were all together in one place, and the
Spirit came.
That's where your strength comes from: the
Spirit of God.
It doesn't come from you.
It doesn't come from situations.
It doesn't come from earthly things.
It doesn't come from creatine.
I have some strength that comes from Jesus
Christ who sent the Spirit in his name from
the Father and lives forever to make intercession.
I have his Spirit, see.
So this is Peter.
Watch.
I divide Peter's life into two separate things.
I call him "Before Spirit Peter," or "BS Peter,"
and then "After Spirit Peter."
This is AS Peter, not BS Peter.
BS Peter, before the Spirit came in him, was
saying all kinds of stuff he couldn't back
up.
"I've got you, Jesus.
I don't care about anything.
Give me that sword!
Give me that ear!"
He was doing Mr. Potato Head preaching before
he got filled with the Spirit.
Now Jesus is gone, but the Spirit came, and
he's bold.
This must be a different dude.
This can't be the same dude who sat down at
the fire and, when a little servant girl asked,
"Were you one of them?" said, "I don't know
him" and started cussing.
Now he's preaching.
That's who spoke these words.
I didn't tell you that.
I wanted to save it, because I wanted you
to see the words, and then I wanted you to
think about who said them and when he said
them and why he said them.
Look at it again.
He goes all the way back.
"The God of Abraham…"
He hits rewind all the way back to the beginning
of the book, to the beginning of the movie,
because something happened in this moment
that made him rethink the whole thing.
He's speaking to the Jewish people.
They're familiar with this God, but as he
rewinds to that first frame and says, "The
God of Abraham," he reminds you and me that
it starts with God.
It didn't start when your mom and dad decided
it was time to try and succeeded.
It didn't start when the fastest swimmer made
it all the way.
(Just waking y'all up.)
It didn't start with any of that.
It starts with God.
Everybody is running, because here's what
happened.
I cannot preach this whole text.
Just read it this week.
Just promise me you'll try to read it this
week.
They're going to the temple at the hour of
prayer.
There are three times of prayer.
They're at this particular time of prayer.
The word hour literally means a divine appointment.
They didn't know that.
They're going to the temple.
This man is at the gate, and he can't walk,
and he asks for money.
Peter is like, "I don't have what you asked
for, but I have what you need that you wouldn't
even know to ask for because it's a name.
Silver and gold have I none, but such as I
have I give you."
This is what Peter said to the man.
"In the name of Jesus, get up and walk."
He reaches down.
His hand becomes a jumper cable.
The man jumps up to his feet.
He starts going to church, but not like everybody
else.
He's high-stepping to church.
He's walking, jumping, praising God.
How many of y'all came in this morning jumping
and praising God?
You know you're lying.
You came in dragging and fighting and cussing
and fussing, and then when you saw the greeters,
you said, "Praise the Lord."
"How are you?"
"I'm blessed and highly favored."
Anyway, there's so much we could say about
this miracle.
He didn't leave the way he came, and all of
that.
Today I want to do what Peter did, and I want
to go back.
This man gets healed, and all of the people
don't know what to think about it, so Peter
takes the opportunity.
You know, a lot of times, God does something
in our lives on a physical level, but we don't
stop to reflect on it and break it down on
a spiritual level, so we don't get the full
benefit of what he did.
Peter sees this man who gets healed, and he
sees, "This would make an excellent opportunity
to preach."
There's a man whose name is not known or mentioned
who is healed by a name that is above every
name, and the vessel for it is a man who really
was an unlikely candidate.
I would call the book of Acts, if I gave it
a subtitle, "The Unfolding Plan of an Unstoppable
God Through Unlikely People."
Like Peter.
Like me.
Like you.
The unfolding plan.
They didn't know it when they were in it.
You don't know it when you're in it.
You can't see it when you're in it.
You'll be grabbing your keys and grabbing
your wallet and getting up to leave and starting
to give up and thinking about quitting and
thinking about walking away and turning to
the person next to you and saying, "This is
ridiculous.
I wasted my money.
I wasted my time.
I wasted my prayers.
I wasted my faith.
I'm wasting my life.
What was it all for?
It keeps hurting, and it won't go away.
I keep trying, and I can't get up."
But in this moment, Peter is taking the opportunity
to remind you of Jesus who is, Hebrews 12:2
says, the author and the finisher of our faith.
So, here's the challenge.
Philip Yancey said faith is believing in advance
what will only make sense in reverse.
Faith for what you can't figure out; faith
for what frustrates you; faith for what has
you tied up in knots; faith for what wakes
you up in the middle of the night; faith for
what makes you think you're losing your mind;
faith for what makes you wonder, "Am I going
crazy?"; faith for what you've given up on
the possibility of change for.
That kind of faith, he says…
We have to go all the way back.
Watch this.
This man has just been healed, and Peter starts
talking about history.
What does this man's healing have to do with
the Jewish people's history?
What does healing have to do with history?
Everything.
Do you understand?
If you are in the history only, then you won't
experience your destiny, but if you are only
focused on your destiny and have no frame
of your history, you will give up too soon
and miss the point of what God is doing in
your life.
The God of Abraham.
We're going all the way back to Abraham, Peter?
Peter is like, "Yeah.
I'm going all the way back."
This is like when you ask somebody how they're
doing, and they're like, "When I was 3…"
You're like, "Whoa.
How are you doing right now?"
All they want to see is "Is this real?
Did that man…?"
Let's give him a name.
"That's Rob.
Rob is not supposed to be walking."
Let's call him Jimmy.
"Jimmy is not supposed to be jumping.
Is Jimmy jumping?
I heard Jimmy was out here jumping.
Jimmy can't be jumping.
We walked right over him."
Now, this is something awesome.
God can shift things so quickly.
The one everybody stepped over is now the
center of the story.
God can shift it like that.
So, don't worry when people say something
about you or don't worry when people don't
give you an opportunity or don't worry when
they don't text you back.
You needed that space on your phone for what's
coming after.
I love the Word of God.
The man is healed, and Peter is like, "The
God of Abraham…"
Because it starts with God.
Look.
Your story, whatever scene you're in right
now…divorce, heartbreak, victory, success,
promotion, termination…any of it…
Your story is a story in a story in a story
in a story in a story.
I should do this 41 times…in a story, in
a story.
Put it in the chat: "In a story."
Say it out loud: "In a story."
That's how many generations back Peter goes
to explain what happened.
"The God of Abraham…"
That's 41 generations before Jesus.
"Peter, can you kind of tell us what's just
going on right now?
Give me the CliffsNotes, Peter.
I'm not sure I want a whole history lesson."
No, no, no.
You have to understand history or you'll look
at this man and think it's his story.
Peter has to show him it's not just his story,
and it's not just your story.
It's his story, the God of Abraham.
I'm living in the middle of his story.
That encourages me.
I don't know why.
When it's all my story, it's all my drama.
When it's all my story, it's all on my budget.
If he's the director, he has to pay the bills.
If he's the director, he has to figure out
the script.
If it's his story, he has to figure out how
to make all this chaos and all this crazy
and all of these world events and all of these
hurts and all of these mistakes work together
to serve the purpose of the Author who created
me from my mother's womb.
So, stepping right into the middle of his
story, this man at the gate, Peter recalls
his story.
It's a story within a story within a story.
You hang around here long enough, I'm going
to teach you the Bible.
Abraham is 75.
His story is coming to a close at 75.
Right?
You haven't talked to the Author yet, Abraham.
The Author showed up to Abraham.
He didn't even have an H in his name.
Vanna didn't even put an H in his name yet.
I watch Wheel of Fortune every Wednesday night
with my mom.
I'm wild and crazy every Wednesday night.
It's called "Wednesdays for the Wheel," and
I pray for Pat Sajak every Wednesday.
Pat, if you ever watch this, I would love
to have you at Elevation.
I think you're amazing.
(I'm just putting it out there in case God
wants to answer a dumb prayer.)
"Abram, start counting stars."
This is what the Author told him.
"Start counting the stars, Lord?
Yeah, you did good on those stars.
That's cool, man."
He's in Ur of the Chaldeans, and God says,
"Go to the land I will show you and count
the stars, and if you can count them, that's
how numerous your descendants are going to
be."
That's what comes after.
"Count the sand of the seashore."
This is a collision of history and destiny,
because there's what God did (the stars) long
before Abram got here, and there's what God
is doing through Abram.
History…destiny.
If you stay stuck in one and don't focus on
the other, you're done.
If you stay just focused on the history…
You're walking around talking about how much
you bench pressed in 1947.
"I was the man back then, y'all.
I see these kids these days.
They don't know how we used to do it back
in the day."
Now you're stuck in your history.
You start talking about what you're going
to do one day when nobody is bothering you
and there's no traffic and they make flying
Teslas and you don't have to wait to get to
work.
Well, that's just you hypothetically avoiding
this present moment.
Wow!
Thank you, God, that I'm not stuck where I
started.
Lord, I thank you for that Scripture that
says, "No eye has seen, no ear has heard,
neither has it entered into the heart of a
man what God has prepared for those who love
him.
But God has revealed them to us by his Spirit."
Nobody ever says the next verse.
I always heard the first verse.
"No eye has seen, and no ear has heard what
has entered into the hearts of men."
The next verse says, "But God…"
Abraham was 75 years old, and his wife's womb
was as good as dead, but God wanted a baby
named Isaac.
Abraham even got in the way and messed it
up by having Ishmael with Hagar, but God had
a plan for Isaac and Ishmael.
But God.
"But God has revealed them by his Spirit."
That's what his Spirit does.
That's what time with God does.
That's why coming to church is a better investment
than the stock market.
than washing your raggedy car, which is going
to be dirty again in three days.
That's why coming to church and listening
to the Word of God…
Because that Word gets in you, and when it
mixes with the Spirit that was in you, and
the soil of the Spirit and the seed of the
Word get together…
God said, "So shall your seed be."
At the same time he's speaking to old Abe…
"Are you sure about that?"
The Lord is like, "I'm sure about that, because
I'm the Author."
Holly got one author on the phone one time
on the Instagram, on her book club…
Hollyfurtick.com.
You can look it up.
She told me to plug the website.
I forgot to do that, so I'm going to do that.
Maybe she'll pay me back in a sponsorship.
You can sponsor me when we get home.
All right?
This will be a sponsored ad.
Y'all quit looking at me.
I'm uncomfortable.
I shouldn't have said it.
What comes after.
That's a whole other sermon.
That's a marriage seminar.
Yeah, do the dishes.
You might get a kiss.
All right.
What comes after.
She was interviewing this author who wrote
a true story about her life.
She gave up a baby for adoption, teenage pregnancy.
When she got the author on the interview,
she said, "You left the story off right there
at the end, and you never told us if you met
the kid."
She goes, "Oh yeah.
That's what my next book is about."
Holly said, "Good.
I can't wait to read it."
Y'all, when we read the book of Acts, we're
reading the sequel.
It was written by Luke, who was a doctor who
traveled with Paul.
He wrote it while Paul was in prison in Rome.
He wrote it to a man named Theophilus.
He calls him "Most excellent Theophilus."
I want y'all to start calling me that, by
the way: "Most excellent Pastor Steven."
All right?
Get on it.
Twenty-six percent of the New Testament was
written by Luke to Theophilus.
Who was Theophilus?
I mean, Luke is writing to him.
Luke isn't even one of the original twelve
disciples.
He's a Gentile who came later.
He writes his first book, self-titled debut
EP, Luke.
Then he puts out the book of Acts as a follow-up,
the sequel.
The disciples (I never saw it this way before)
are living in the sequel.
Jesus is gone in bodily form.
What they knew is no longer available.
What was normal for them for three years has
been upended.
The cross has happened.
The resurrection has happened.
The Spirit has come.
There's persecution ahead, but there's progress
ahead.
There is always persecution with progress.
If it's not from the outside, it's going to
be from your lower nature and your flesh on
the inside.
There's always persecution with progress.
I told y'all last week the Devil will step
right out of your way if you're headed in
the wrong direction.
Try it.
Any football players in here?
I heard there were basketball players in here
today.
Is that right?
All right.
Do it when you get back when the season starts.
Turn around and run toward the other goal
and see if anybody stops you.
They'll let you do it all day long.
They'll hand you a Gatorade.
"Yeah, do that again."
If you're putting points on the board for
the Devil, he'll assist you.
He'll alley-oop you, but if you ever make
up your mind…
"I'm following Jesus.
No turning back.
I'm going forward into the future.
I have a father named Abraham who had a son
named Isaac who had a son named Jacob, and
now his servant Jesus is being glorified."
The unfolding plan.
Corrie ten Boom said something like, "Heaven
has no panic, only plans."
Think about what she went through, and she
still said that, not before it happened, but
after.
She's still standing there saying stuff like,
"Heaven has no panic, only plans."
But it's an unfolding plan.
You get the picture.
You don't see the scene.
So, by faith, I have to find out what God
can do, and I have to apply that to the area
where I'm the most anxious right now and believe
by faith going forward based on the foundation
of who God is, the God of Abraham, the God
of Isaac, the God of Jacob.
Isaac was tied up on an altar.
Just at the moment where he thought he was
going to be sacrificed, he heard a rustling
of a ram in a bush, because God never intended
to kill Isaac.
God always had a ram.
The Bible says Jesus is the Lamb of God who
was slain from the foundation of the earth.
When Peter stood at the cross…
I have news for y'all.
He didn't call it Good Friday.
We call it that because we know what came
after.
Question: What if it's good?
We all know from broccoli that it can be good
and not taste good.
We know that.
What if it's good?
Flip side: What if it's not?
What if it makes you feel good, but it's not
good?
I'm not calling anybody out or putting you
on the spot, but is there anybody watching
online or at one of our campuses right now
who would raise your hand (if you want to
raise your hand; you don't have to) who struggled
with addiction and went through recovery at
some point in your life?
Thank you for raising your hand.
We're proud of you.
You want to snatch people back now when you
see them going down that path, don't you?
Because you know that after the high comes
the lowest low, and you know what it takes
to break free from those chains.
You know how hard it still is for you every
day.
You just want to scream, like y'all want to
scream for me.
"Don't keep walking, Pastor."
You see what comes after.
That's why Peter said, "Repent."
Did you notice that word in the text?
He said, "Repent.
Turn around.
You're going the wrong way.
You have your faith in the law.
You listened to the prophets, but you missed
the Messiah.
Repent."
You're trusting in your works, but you have
to receive this gospel by grace.
Repent.
You're living your life for sinful pleasures,
and sin is fun for a season.
I said, "Sin is fun for a season," emphasis
on season, but after that season comes another
season.
Some people who are trying to warn you right
now…
You tune them out.
You tell them no.
You don't want to repent.
You don't want to hear that.
But how can the refreshing come if the repentance
doesn't?
Repent!
Turn around.
You have time.
You're not dead.
You're still breathing.
You're not in this forever.
Let me show you how I know.
Can I show you how I know it's not forever?
Can I show you how I know you still have time?
Can I show you how I know it's not too late?
Can I show you how I know it's going to turn
around?
Can I show you why I have faith to preach
this word to you today?
Because of what Peter said in verse 15.
Verse 15 is so anointed.
If you need to share Jesus with somebody,
but you only have five seconds, read them
Acts 3:15.
Don't start with Abraham.
You'll mess it up.
You'll be putting Abraham on the ark and Moses
and all that, but don't do that.
Just say Acts 3:15 and show them this.
He said, "You killed the author of life…"
Remember, this is AS Peter, not BS Peter.
Peter was cussing while Jesus was dying, but
now he has been forgiven, and he has repented,
and he knows that wasn't the end.
He's looking right at these people and saying,
"When you handed him over to the Romans, you
killed him.
When you wanted to give up Barabbas, as was
the custom, instead of the author of life,
you killed the author."
You're like, "Pastor, I really want to go
here with you, but this does not feel to me
like the best verse I should share with my
friends like you just said."
Why are you stopping at the comma?
Any English teachers in the room?
English teachers make some noise!
Y'all don't get shouted out much, do you?
I shouted out the basketball players.
Everybody was happy.
English teachers!
I need both of y'all to preach this message.
This is an all-inclusive gospel.
I need everybody's help here.
Tell me what a comma means.
Stop?
It means stop?
Hold on.
I'm confused, because it sounds like you're
saying, "Pause," but what I see people do
all the time is get a divorce and stop.
What I see people do all the time is fail
and stop.
What I see people do all the time is come
up short and stop.
What I see people do all the time is try to
change and stop.
What I see people do all the time is give
it three days and stop.
Don't ever let that Devil put a period where
God put a comma, because that comma doesn't
mean it's over!
It means take a breath and keep going, because
whatever is on the other side of that problem…
I feel it in my spirit.
I'm not preaching from my head; I'm preaching
from my heart.
"This is emotionalism."
No, it's grammar.
It is grammar.
Professor Furtick is in the house.
Put it back up.
I'm not done with it yet.
This sentence is so anointed.
No, not that…the verse.
The same verse, y'all.
Put it up.
Put it on the screen, please.
Please!
This is like us waiting on God.
You know what I'm saying?
This is like Abraham…25 years between when
God gave him the promise and he saw it come
to pass.
But just because I had to pause doesn't mean
I stop preaching.
I'm going to stay right here until that word
comes!
Spirit of the Nature Boys…Charlotte, North
Carolina, where we speak English, Southern
English.
I failed Greek.
I never passed Hebrew.
They just sent me the degree to get me off
the books.
That's true.
I made friends with the professor.
I said, "Do you really want me to keep taking
your class?"
I had a degree a couple of weeks later.
I don't know what happened in between, but
I know what came after.
I got that cemetery degree.
"You killed the author."
I normally give you one word from God.
Today I give you two.
You don't need to know Hebrew.
You don't need to know Greek.
You don't need to remember Theophilus.
You don't have to go back to Abraham.
You don't have to do any of that.
Those two words that come after the comma…
That's what I want you to remember for every
battle in your life in this season, for every
cross in your life in this season, for every
struggle in your life in this season, for
every setback in your life, for every question
in your life, for every unanswered prayer
in your life in this season, for every thorn
in your flesh in this season, for every limp
in your hip this season.
I want you to remember what comes after the
comma.
"But God…"
The only two words you need to whip the Devil's
butt.
Tell him, "But…"
Stop being so reactive to the Enemy's attack.
I told you last week, "Close your doors."
Now I'm telling you this week, "Cover your
butt."
Can y'all believe I think about stuff like
this while you're at work?
"But God…"
You could do a whole study on every time it
says, "But God" in the Bible, and you'd be
blessed.
You'd find out that very rarely will one die
for even a righteous person, but God demonstrates
his own love for us in this, that while we
were still sinners…
Not at the end of the movie when we get our
act together.
Not when we get to heaven one day and we are
given our wings and our trumpets, but while
I'm still in my sin.
I need somebody to hear that.
It is in the midst of the sin that the love
is revealed.
Don't keep sinning just because of that, but
don't you stop because you're caught up in
a comma.
That is a comma.
It does not mean stop, and it means what's
coming next you need to pay attention to.
But…
Tell me if I'm right, English teacher.
But can be an adverb.
But can be a preposition.
In this particular instance, but is not a
noun, so you don't have to get off your butt,
not in this instance.
That's a different thing.
This but (this is important) is a conjunction.
I remember it because of the song "Conjunction
junction, what's your…"
Right, right.
Y'all don't know the Bible, but y'all knew
that.
I love it.
Right there in that but is your breakthrough.
Right there in that but is your freedom.
Right there in that but is you knowing how
to calm yourself down when you feel like you're
going crazy.
But.
It is a conjunction.
It is an adversative conjunction.
What that means is whatever comes after this
but…
I'm preaching to you today about what comes
after.
A conjunction that is after this comma means
that whatever comes after this but is going
to make whatever came before it wish it had
never even happened.
Let me say it again.
This is where the deep Christians are.
Let me say it on this side.
Or maybe I should say it to this side.
Or maybe I should say it to the people who
got here early and got a seat right there
on the floor.
Okay.
Maybe it's over here.
Watch this.
Whatever comes after this but is going to
cancel out whatever happened before it.
You didn't hear me.
It's not going to make it that it never happened.
It's going to make it that even though it
happened, something greater happened after
that made what happened before the but…
I'm preaching on my punctuation marks today!
When people say to you stuff like, "No offense,
but…"
Whatever they're getting ready to say on the
other side of that but is going to make you
forget and disbelieve whatever they said before
it.
"No offense, but you can't dance, and your
tattoo is crooked, and I don't like your jewelry,
and you smell weird around your neck."
You know, whatever they tell you.
It's going to be so crazy.
"No offense, but…"
You get it.
"Don't take this personally, but…"
A lady told Holly one time, "Don't take this
personally, but we're leaving the church.
We don't think Pastor Steven preaches sound
doctrine or the gospel of Jesus Christ.
We're just tired of seeing people come into
church who are coming in high from the night
before."
I couldn't understand.
If they can't come to church high from the
night before, how are we going to lead them
to the Most High God they don't even know
about?
If I can't preach to them…
How am I going to preach if they don't hear?
She had the unmitigated nerve, gall, and audacity
to say, "Don't take it personally."
"Nothing personal, but your church sucks and
you're leading people to hell.
But it's not personal."
No, of course not.
What you said after but…
"You killed the author…"
But you can't do that, can you?
The author is the one who gets to decide when
it's over.
You can't really kill the author, can you?
If you kill the author, they can write a sequel.
If you kill the author, they can put a comma.
If you kill the author, they can write another
chapter.
I wasn't shouting over the comma.
I wasn't shouting over the but.
I was shouting over what came after.
I wasn't shouting over the pain.
I wasn't shouting over the shame.
I was shouting over what came after.
If whatever comes after that comma and that
but is bigger than what came before it, and
what came after that but was God…
We're talking about the God of Abraham, the
God of Isaac, the God of Jacob.
I wish Peter would have kept going.
I wish he would have started talking about
Joseph, because Joseph talked just like this.
This is how Joseph talked.
Remember?
Sold into slavery, left in a pit, taken to
a prison, falsely accused, forgotten in a
prison, standing before his brothers 39 years
later…
Forty years of interval.
That's what you live in.
You live in the interval, the interval between
what God spoke and what you see.
You have to believe it in the interval.
Joseph, after all that time…
I have to show you what he said.
Peter stopped one character short.
He should have talked about Joseph who said,
"As for you, you intended to harm me…"
You'll hear Joseph as Peter is preaching about
Jesus.
Remember what Peter just said.
"You killed him, but the grave couldn't keep
him."
Let me be explicit.
Your faith can't be in the miracle.
It has to be in the man.
It has to be in Jesus.
It has to be in what he did.
I'm talking about the fact that he got up
out of the grave.
That's the basis of our faith.
His name is Jesus.
His name will still be Jesus if I have a job.
His name will still be Jesus if I don't have
a job.
His name will still be Jesus if I'm crying.
His name will still be Jesus if I lose 20
or if I gain 20.
His name will still be Jesus if you like me.
His name will still be Jesus.
That's not changing, so neither is my faith.
He got up.
It was cross versus Creator, and guess who
won.
It was God versus grave, and guess who gave
up.
Guess who tapped out.
Not God.
So why would you?
Joseph, looking at all his pain and all his
trauma, said something so powerful, and you
will recognize it.
You will wonder if Peter was plagiarizing
Joseph when he said, "You killed the author,
but God…"
Look at this Scripture.
This is amazing.
"You intended to harm me, but God…"
Do you recognize those two words?
Do you recognize that conjunction?
The same one Jesus was doing on the cross
Joseph was doing in his relationships.
That's what you have to do.
He said, "You intended to harm me…"
Harm me.
I can't change that.
"…but God intended it for what is now being
done."
He lived 55 more years to see his children's
children's children brought to his knees.
That's amazing.
All because of what happened after the comma.
The Lord sent me prophetically to speak to
somebody who's at the comma right now.
"What am I going to do next?
How am I going to handle this?
Can I get up from the fall?
Are we going to try it again?
Are we going to believe again?
Am I going to get out of the bed before 11:00
a.m. this week?
What am I going to do next?"
Joseph shows us that you don't need a deep
revelation.
You just need to disrupt the Devil with a
but, because what comes after that but…
It doesn't change the past.
No, you can't change it, but what comes after
can change the very nature of the whole first
two hours of the movie, of the whole first
20 years of your life, of the last 20 years
of your life.
What comes after.
You'll be turning around, saying, "Now wait
a minute.
Maybe God allowed some of that.
Maybe it wasn't bad.
Maybe God put me through that test so I would
have a testimony."
Maybe God let Joseph be in that pit so he
could be standing in that position to be a
provider.
You have to believe that by faith.
"But God…"
Don't tell me you don't know how to fight
the Devil this week, and don't tell me you
don't have any weapons.
You don't need a big one if it's loaded.
That is a loaded statement, because that but
God…
Anything.
Loneliness.
"I feel alone."
I know you do, but God is with me.
And if God is with me, he's going to bring
everything I need.
I can't do it, but God is in me.
But God's Spirit…
Peter couldn't preach until the Spirit came.
It was what came after.
I declare a shift in your life.
I declare a shift in your self-image.
I declare a shift in your insecurities.
I declare a shift in your adversity.
I declare a shift in your perspective.
You cannot change the past, but God can change
your perspective.
"You tried to harm me.
It came to harm me.
I even harmed myself."
The word harm…
It says, "Harm."
Can I change it?
I don't want to erase it, but can I change
it?
I can't erase it.
It's up there.
Can I change it?
Of course you can…by what comes after.
I feel like David Blaine up here, y'all.
That was magic.
How we took something so ugly…
What came after?
Three letters.
Three days.
"You killed the author.
You killed the composer, but it didn't stop
the symphony."
God is the one who brings it all into harmony.
Harmony.
That's a musical term.
Holly has a book club, but I have a songwriting
team.
Harmony.
The author, the composer…
They get to write the notes, see.
Y'all, I don't play piano.
I play guitar pretty good, not as good as
Joey.
Who does play guitar as good as Joey?
But I'll tell you right now I know how to
find middle C on this piano.
I wanted to show you what Joseph meant when
he said, "You meant to harm me, but God used
all of it to bring us to this moment."
I will not let what happened before regulate
what I believe God for going forward.
I use that as an illustration, church, just
to talk to you about the fact that this note,
this single note in isolation…
Is it a good note?
Anybody who thinks it's a good note, make
some noise for middle C. Or is it a bad note?
Everybody who thinks it's a bad note, make
some noise.
"Boo, middle C." Come on.
You know intuitively what I'm trying to teach
you.
You know intuitively what Miles Davis said.
He said, "It is not the note you play that
is wrong.
It is the next note you play that makes it
wrong or right."
There's nothing wrong with that note.
There's nothing right with that note.
Is it good?
Is it bad?
Is it neither?
It's neither until I hear what comes after.
Bad note.
Same note.
Next note.
Not a bad note, but it's a dissonant note
because the interval is dissonant.
There's nothing wrong with this note.
Don't start running around all of your pianos
in your house and taking out middle C. "Oh,
it's a bad note."
This is what we want to do.
Something happens in our life.
"I've got to get rid of that stress.
I've got to get rid of that challenge.
I've got to get rid of that thing.
This is bad.
This is horrible."
No, no, no.
You don't know yet until you hear…
It sounds like Jaws in here right now.
God brought us here to talk about your next
note, because you can't control so much of
what happens.
You can't erase what you did.
Peter said, "You killed the author, but God…"
Do you really think anything you've done is
greater than who God is?
Do you really think any mistake you've made
is greater than who God is?
Joseph said, "You meant to harm me, but God
who works all things together for his good
will take what was meant to harm me and bring
it into harmony."
Next note.
It's your next note that God wants to speak
about.
That sounds good.
Middle C has been redeemed.
All I had to do was put it with F. That interval
is called a perfect fourth.
English, music theory, therapy…
Y'all ought to start paying me.
When I put that together…
We could do a lot with that.
"This is my story…"
It's the same note I started with and did
this to you, but where I took it next…
What is your next note?
Or are you going to stay stuck on middle C
forever?
Now we need a next note.
"This is my story…"
Within a story.
God is the author.
The Devil is a liar.
He is defeated.
He killed the author, but God has raised him.
Oh, what's your next note going to be?
"This is my story…"
The Devil is not the author.
You're not the author.
God is the author.
Don't you want to see what's on the other
side of this but?
Or are you going to die at the comma?
Are you going to die at the gate?
Are you going to die in the disappointment?
Yes, people broke your heart.
That's what brokenhearted people do.
They meant to harm you, but God…
What is your next note?
God says you get to choose.
"Are you going to play the one I wrote for
you?
Are you going to play the one I destined for
Are you going to play the one I created you
for so that you have a story?"
You could be telling a different story this
time next year.
It's about the next note.
Come off that cross.
Come out of that grave.
Come out of that failure.
Repent and turn to the Lord.
He brought you here for this moment to tell
you he is the author and the finisher, and
the next note is yours to sing.
"Amazing grace…"
See?
"…how sweet…"
No.
"Amazing grace…"
It's your note.
"…how sweet the sound that saved…"
Next note.
"…a wretch like me.
I once was lost, but now…"
Next note.
"…I'm found, was blind…"
"…but now I see."
Come on.
Let's keep going.
What's your next note?
I know mine.
Praise God, praise God, praise God, praise
God,
Praise God, praise God, praise God…
I can't sing it for you.
You have to open your mouth and let everything
that has breath praise the Lord.
Praise God, praise God, praise God, praise
God,
Praise God, praise God, praise God.
It's the next note.
You shall live and not die.
God kept you alive for a reason.
It's the next note.
That's what the Devil is fighting you over:
what comes after the comma.
It is your next note.
What will it be?
I know what mine is.
I thought about giving up.
I thought about quitting.
I thought about throwing in the towel.
I thought I wouldn't make it.
I thought I wasn't worthy.
I thought he couldn't forgive me.
I thought I couldn't do it.
I thought my best was behind me until I found
out what my next note needed to be.
But God, but God, but God, but God
But God, but God, but God…
thank you for watching the elevation church
youtube channel don't stop here join the e-fam
our online extended family and join us live
every sunday subscribe to this channel so
you don't miss a single video or live stream
and share this with a friend you can also
support the ministry by clicking the give
now button to help us continue to reach people
around the world for jesus christ thank you
again for watching god bless you